# Fin-5350-Assignment

# This is header

_italics_

etc..
Perspective of reading James M. Buchanan’s paper--
=============================================
“What should economists do?”
-------------------------
Economists seems like a set of abstraction to me for such a while because for the most of time I make myself be caught in blindness of knowing “what exactly the economists do?”. One thing I can make sure is they focus on reaching of how to better the economic climate but still this is a perceptual intuition. In author’s vision, he believes “Economists should concentrate their attention on a form of human activity, and upon the various institutional arrangements that arise as result of this form of activity”. In another word, men’s behavior in the market is the subject for economists to pay attention on. The subtext meaning is there are many economists do not know what problems they want to focus not mention find the right approach to solve the problems. Buchanan applies a paraphrase in the end of his paper can support his position “Concentration on methodology won’t solve any of the problems for you, but at least you should know what the problems are”. For some reason, it is difficult for me to realize the deeper meaning of this aphorism that he applies but I do think he is right about this in the analyzing area of economy. 
 I learned both fundamental macroeconomics and microeconomics classes in undergraduate schooling. Up till now, personally, I think microeconomics is generally based on empiricism to get the description and understanding of economic entities behavior. On the other hand, macroeconomics at least issues many prediction and assumption, which makes some contribution to social progress. Meanwhile, the prediction put it in a tight corner for making the economic crisis frequency from five to seven. In Buchanan’s paper, he focuses more in the microeconomics fields, reaching on theory of choice. By following the traditional approach, we set down preference of economic entity and left complex calculation no matter how cumbersome the computation is. However, precondition of these calculation is primarily not there anymore so that the theory of choice has been lost its power. In general, this whole neatly done theory is to answer the problem that is designed to answer. As what T.D Weldon suggested in the paper, the problem in and of itself implies the presence of “solution”.
 Buchanan announced that economics should recycle their energy into Adam Smith’s work because they overlooked in most of the exegetical treatments of human nature, propensity to truck, barter, and exchange. In today’s economic research, economists will often set an environmental structure like perfect competition, imperfect competition etc. Under a perfect competition, market is more like a box. People put input in and take output out and the two sides of this box becomes to the point: How would company chose what to produce? How would consumer choose what to purchase? Why is price naturally been produced? Everyone are forced to accept the price from nowhere and everybody is quite happy about it. People follow what economists have told them to follow like Pareto Opportunity but where we put the competition in market? The author started, economists should be “market economists”, but only because they should concentrate on market or exchange institutions. That is to say，researchers need pay their attention on understanding mutual effects in every strategic decision making and how the effects make the market as it today. Also, what objective condition decides the market cannot form as what we expected. What can economists do to develop market efficiency to make a stage for the part of exchanging among humans. 
   To a large extent, author starts his research from introspection. For example, in Robbins vision, our subject field is a problem or set of problems, not a characteristic form of human activity. To the contrary, Buchanan suggests economists should concentrate their attention on a form of human activity. The fact is, efficiency is the chiefly value of economic activity in the field of neoclassical economics, which is all the resource can come to an optimal combination specified conditions. This is another example of introspection because the author believes the efficiency could lead to an epistemological misunderstanding. People are much easier to think of efficiency as an independent result or a best situation and perfect competition makes the efficiency more independent however market is the tool and approach to make this happen. Buchanan thinks no matter what kind strategy you take to make efficiency as people’s wish is not important when understanding market as tools and making efficiency as a goal. He also announced efficiency reflects immaterial satisfaction of main market players and this satisfaction can only be incarnated in market process. For example, someone would wait whole night for a new phone or spend a lot of time just for a catchy ticket of a concert because they can get such a satisfaction from these activities. Imagining there will be no satisfaction in the market process if the new phone has not been produced or these is even no such a musician to hold any concert. Then, people will be confused when face the theory of choice. In terms of this, I think Buchanan is right about efficiency and market process and the key is about human and human activity that support market process all the time. Efficiency is not a perfect situation for people to propose and it is also not an independent existence without human activity. Only can it be produced when participators in a process of interaction because the market is a system that encourage and provide a climate for everybody to chase and pursue what they really want. In this condition, he believes economists should focus on the market process but not “efficiency”.
   In many ways, I have a big agreement with what Buchanan has stated but I still have a concern about finding your problem, solving the problems, and some economic assumption. On one hand, he mentioned Milton Friedman’s definition about economics, which is the study of how a society solves its economic problem. On the other hand, he agreed on principles of political-philosophical order, society as the entity that confronts the economic problem and must always be conceived in terms of its individual members. This is only shorthand for saying “a particular group of individuals who have organized themselves socially solving their economic problems”. However, what is the relative ways to find those economic problem they want to solve? I noticed the author mentioned at the end of his paper. He advanced a position which is neutral with respect to ideological or normative content. He was simply proposing a channel to have opportunities to find problem and solve those problems, economists concentrate attention on the institutions, the relationships, among individuals as they participate in voluntarily organized activity, in trade or exchange, broadly considered. Only when you truly participate into the activity, can you have chances to find problems and use strategy to overcome it. Still, I think place yourself into such an exchanging activity will provide clue for economists to find problems but solving problems is another business though. You cannot make sure that everything will go to the right way as you wish because market has the probability which will lead a trend to both the good way and even worth way. Developing economics need to care more about people and their behavior or it will be harder to solve problems when participating in people’s activities.
   Timing is another importing sign for economists to solve problems when social with activities. There is a saying，those closely involved cannot see clearly but the onlookers do. Sometimes, even when you get involved in the activities you still have no such a clear vision and understanding about the whole picture. A range of people will just follow by everyone else and be enjoyable and satisfied about participating. The inherent meaning and value will become more and more prominent along with the precipitation of time and penetration of research. On this level，timing would be the solution for those problems and people will always find ways to conquer it. By understanding this paper from a side of plain view, I generally agree with what the author has been represented. You should be down to the earth with exchanging activity when having problems and the way to find solution to solve problems need to come up with introspection, timely assumption, sprite of participating, and timing. It is a process not just for economists but also for a variety of positions and only experienced to know how to go further on the road of what should do but not what want to do.
